## Daily Study Session: 

* podlaha (floor)
* uterak (towel)
* umyvadlo (sink)
* vana (bath)
* Umyvadlo je pokazene (The sink is broken)
* Mas uterak. Do you have a towel?
* Podlaha je mokra. The floor is wet. 
* 209 days 


## Weekly Quiz: 
* banka (bank) 
* supermarket (supermarket)
* Ja musim ist do kniznice. (I have to go to the library)
* dom (house)
* Kde je banka? (Where is the bank?)
* Kde je supermarket? (Where is a supermarket?)
* Ja staviam. (I build)
* Ty stavias. (You build)
* On stavia. (He builds)
* Ja staviam domy. (I build houses)
* stavat (build)
* stavias ty domy? (Do you build houses)
* On nestavia domy. (He doesn't build houses)
* divadlo (theatre)
* kino (cinema)
* Me ideme do divadla (We go to the theater)
* nemocnica (hospital) 
* Me sa s tebou stretavame v restauraccii. We meet you at the resturant.
* Ona pracuje v nemocnici. She works in a hospital.
* izba (room)
* okno (window)
* Izba je spinava. (The room is dirty)
* dvere (door)
* Okna su spinave. (The windows are dirty)
* Podlaha je spinava. (The floor is dirty)
* spalna (bedroom)
* postel (bed)
* Je v jej spalni. (She is in her bedroom)
* lampa (lamp)
* Ja potrebujem lampu. (I need a lamp) 
* Ja potrebujem postel. (I need a bed)
* kuchyna (kitchen)
* rura (oven)
* Ja v kuchyni. (She's in the kitchen) 
* pohar (glass)
* Tu su pohare. (Here are the glasses)
* Tu su salky. (Here are the cups)
* vana (bath)
* umyvadlo (sink)
* Umyvadlo je pokazene. (The sink is broken)
* uterak (towel)
* Mas uterak? (do you have a towel?)
* Podlaha je mokra. (The floor is wet)
