Today I Read: 

On LinkedIN, I read a list of ChatGPT "alternatives" which various people are pointing to as other great examples of Generative AI. I visited each of the links, signed up and played around with the various account(s) with these services.  Generative AI is amazing! I also read this post about (Google's Bard)[https://www.linkedin.com/news/story/google-to-launch-chatgpt-rival-6165354/]

I completed the first module out of three in the AWS  Intro to Machine Learning scholarship opportunity offered by Udacity.  Here is the link for anyone else interested in joining.  Udacity both emailed those on their scholarship interest list, and posted info about this opportunity to social media.  
The 3 modules in the program include 1. Getting Started (with sub learning segments of 1.1 Lesson Outline, 1.2 What is ML, and 1.3 Components of ML) which is the section I completed today.  And the other two sections are to be completed in future dates.

In addition, I read daily Dail.dev (How to Break the Tutorial Cycle and actually start coding)[https://blog.tarynmcmillan.com/stop-watching-tutorials-and-start-writing-your-own-code-with-these-five-tips] which I found both fascinating and super challenging too! I also read about the potential role AI may play in ("finding ET")[https://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/2023/02/06/ai-potential-alien-signals/]

Resumed access to my GitHub, today as well.  Apparently, I'd not logged in for long enough I had some technical hurdles to workout. 

Coding: 
Didn't do a lot of coding today.  I did do server maintence and read a wordpress article about security and vulnerabilities. 