# ES6
* This section has 31 coding challenges. 
* ECMAScript, or ES, is a standardized version of JavaScript. 
* Because all major browsers follow this specification, 
* the terms ECMAScript and JavaScript are interchangeable.
* Most of the JavaScript you've learned up to this point was in ES5 (ECMAScript 5), 
* which was finalized in 2009. While you can still write programs in ES5, 
* JavaScript is always evolving, and new features are released every year.
* ES6, released in 2015, added many powerful new features to the language.
* In this course, you'll learn these new features, including let and const, 
* arrow functions, classes, promises, and modules.


## [Explore Differences Between the var and let Keywords](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/explore-differences-between-the-var-and-let-keywords)
* One of the biggest problems with declaring variables 
* with the var keyword is 
* you can overwrite variable declarations without an error.
```
var camper = 'James';
var camper = 'David';
console.log(camper);
```
* Here the console will display the string David.
* As you can see in the code above, 
* the camper variable is originally declared as James 
* and then overridden to be David. 
* In a small application, you might not run into this type of problem, 
* but when your code becomes larger, 
* you might accidentally overwrite a variable 
* that you did not intend to overwrite. 
* Because this behavior does not throw an error, 
* searching and fixing bugs becomes more difficult.
* A new keyword called ```let```
* was introduced in ES6 to solve this potential issue
* with the var keyword. 
* If you were to replace ```var``` with ```let``` 
* in the variable declarations of the code above, 
* the result would be an error.
```
let camper = 'James';
let camper = 'David';
```
* This error can be seen in the console of your browser. 
* So unlike var, when using let,
* a variable with the same name can only be declared once. 
* Note the "use strict". 
* This enables Strict Mode, 
* which catches common coding mistakes and "unsafe" actions. 
* For instance:
```
"use strict";
x = 3.14;
```
* This will display an error that x is not defined.
* Code Assignement: Update the code so it only uses the let keyword.


## [Compare Scopes of the var and let Keywords](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/compare-scopes-of-the-var-and-let-keywords)
* When you declare a variable with the var keyword, it is declared globally, 
* or locally if declared inside a function.
* The let keyword behaves similarly, but with some extra features. 
* When you declare a variable with the let keyword inside a block, statement, or expression, 
* its scope is limited to that block, statement, or expression.
* For example:
```
var numArray = [];
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray);
console.log(i);
```
* Here the console will display the values [0, 1, 2] and 3.
* With the var keyword, i is declared globally. 
* So when i++ is executed, it updates the global variable. This code is similar to the following:
```
var numArray = [];
var i;
for (i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray);
console.log(i);
```
* Here the console will display the values [0, 1, 2] and 3.
* This behavior will cause problems if you were to create a function 
* and store it for later use inside a for loop that uses the i variable. 
* This is because the stored function will always refer to the value of the updated global i variable.
```
var printNumTwo;
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo());
```
* Here the console will display the value 3.
* As you can see, printNumTwo() prints 3 and not 2. 
* This is because the value assigned to i was updated and the printNumTwo() 
* returns the global i and not the value i had when the function was created in the for loop. 
* The let keyword does not follow this behavior:
```
let printNumTwo;
for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo());
console.log(i);
```
* Here the console will display the value 2, and an error that i is not defined.
* i is not defined because it was not declared in the global scope. 
* It is only declared within the for loop statement. printNumTwo()
*  returned the correct value because three different i variables 
*  with unique values (0, 1, and 2) were created by the let keyword within the loop statement.

* Code Assignement: Fix the code so that i declared in the if statement is a separate variable than i declared in the first line of the function. Be certain not to use the var keyword anywhere in your code. This exercise is designed to illustrate the difference between how var and let keywords assign scope to the declared variable. When programming a function similar to the one used in this exercise, it is often better to use different variable names to avoid confusion.



## [Declare a Read-Only Variable with the const Keyword](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/declare-a-read-only-variable-with-the-const-keyword)
* The keyword let is not the only new way to declare variables.
* In ES6, you can also declare variables using the const keyword.
* const has all the awesome features that let has, 
* variables declared using const are read-only. 
* They are a constant value, 
* which means that once a variable is assigned with const, 
* it cannot be reassigned.
```
const FAV_PET = "Cats";
FAV_PET = "Dogs";
```
*  The console will display an error due to reassigning the value of FAV_PET.
*  As you can see, trying to reassign a variable declared with const will throw an error. 
*  You should always name variables you don't want to reassign using the const keyword. 
*  This helps when you accidentally attempt to reassign a variable that is meant to stay constant. 
*  A common practice when naming constants is to use all uppercase letters, with words separated by an underscore.
* Note: It is common for developers to use uppercase variable identifiers for immutable values and lowercase or camelCase for mutable values (objects and arrays). In a later challenge you will see an example of a lowercase variable identifier being used for an array.
* Code Assignement: Change the code so that all variables are declared using let or const. Use let when you want the variable to change, and const when you want the variable to remain constant. Also, rename variables declared with const to conform to common practices, meaning constants should be in all caps.


## [Mutate an Array Declared with const](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/mutate-an-array-declared-with-const)
* The const declaration has many use cases in modern JavaScript.
* Some developers prefer to assign all their variables using const by default, unless they know they will need to reassign the value. Only in that case, they use let.
* However, it is important to understand that objects (including arrays and functions) assigned to a variable using const are still mutable. Using the const declaration only prevents reassignment of the variable identifier.
```
const s = [5, 6, 7];
s = [1, 2, 3];
s[2] = 45;
console.log(s);
```
* s = [1, 2, 3] will result in an error. 
* The console.log will display the value [5, 6, 45].
* As you can see, you can mutate the object [5, 6, 7] itself and the variable s will still point to the altered array [5, 6, 45]. Like all arrays, the array elements in s are mutable, but because const was used, you cannot use the variable identifier s to point to a different array using the assignment operator.

* Code Assignement: An array is declared as const s = [5, 7, 2]. Change the array to [2, 5, 7] using various element assignments.


## [Prevent Object Mutation](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/prevent-object-mutation)
* As seen in the previous challenge, 
* const declaration alone doesn't really protect your data from mutation. 
* To ensure your data doesn't change, 
* JavaScript provides a function Object.freeze 
* to prevent data mutation.
* Once the object is frozen, 
* you can no longer add, update, or delete properties from it. 
* Any attempt at changing the object will be rejected 
* without an error.
```
let obj = {
  name:"FreeCodeCamp",
  review:"Awesome"
};
Object.freeze(obj);
obj.review = "bad";
obj.newProp = "Test";
console.log(obj);
```
* The obj.review and obj.newProp assignments will result in errors,
*  and the console will display the value { name: "FreeCodeCamp", review: "Awesome" }.
*  note that's capital O in Object.freeze()

* Code Assignement:  In this challenge you are going to use Object.freeze to prevent mathematical constants from changing. You need to freeze the MATH_CONSTANTS object so that no one is able to alter the value of PI, add, or delete properties.


## [Use Arrow Functions to Write Concise Anonymous Functions](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/use-arrow-functions-to-write-concise-anonymous-functions)
* In JavaScript, we often don't need to name our functions, especially when passing a function as an argument to another function. Instead, we create inline functions. We don't need to name these functions because we do not reuse them anywhere else.

To achieve this, we often use the following syntax:
```
const myFunc = function() {
  const myVar = "value";
  return myVar;
}
```
ES6 provides us with the syntactic sugar to not have to write anonymous functions this way. Instead, you can use arrow function syntax:
```
const myFunc = () => {
  const myVar = "value";
  return myVar;
}
```
When there is no function body, and only a return value, arrow function syntax allows you to omit the keyword return as well as the brackets surrounding the code. This helps simplify smaller functions into one-line statements:

``` const myFunc = () => "value"; ```
This code will still return the string value by default.

* Code Assignement: Rewrite the function assigned to the variable magic which returns a new Date() to use arrow function syntax. Also, make sure nothing is defined using the keyword var.

```
var magic = function() {
  return new Date();
};
```
becomes:
```
const magic = () => new Date();
```

## [Write Arrow Functions with Parameters](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/write-arrow-functions-with-parameters)
* Just like a regular function, 
* you can pass arguments into an arrow function.
```
const doubler = (item) => item * 2;
doubler(4);
```
* doubler(4) would return the value 8.
* If an arrow function has a single parameter,
*  the parentheses enclosing the parameter may be omitted.
```
const doubler = item => item * 2;
```
* It is possible to pass more than one argument into an arrow function.
```
const multiplier = (item, multi) => item * multi;
multiplier(4, 2);
```
* multiplier(4, 2) would return the value 8.

* Code Assignement: Rewrite the myConcat function which appends contents of arr2 to arr1 so that the function uses arrow function syntax.


## [Set Default Parameters for Your Functions](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/set-default-parameters-for-your-functions)
* In order to help us create more flexible functions, ES6 introduces default parameters for functions.

Check out this code:
```
const greeting = (name = "Anonymous") => "Hello " + name;

console.log(greeting("John"));
console.log(greeting());
```
The console will display the strings Hello John and Hello Anonymous.

The default parameter kicks in when the argument is not specified (it is undefined). As you can see in the example above, the parameter name will receive its default value Anonymous when you do not provide a value for the parameter. You can add default values for as many parameters as you want
* Code Assignement: Modify the function increment by adding default parameters so that it will add 1 to number if value is not specified.


## [Use the Rest Parameter with Function Parameters](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/use-the-rest-parameter-with-function-parameters)
* In order to help us create more flexible functions, 
* ES6 introduces the rest parameter for function parameters. 
* With the rest parameter, you can create functions that take a variable number of arguments. 
* These arguments are stored in an array that can be accessed later from inside the function.
* Check out this code:
```
function howMany(...args) {
  return "You have passed " + args.length + " arguments.";
}
console.log(howMany(0, 1, 2));
console.log(howMany("string", null, [1, 2, 3], { }));
```
* The console would display the strings You have passed 3 arguments. 
* and You have passed 4 arguments..
* The rest parameter eliminates the need to check the args array 
* and allows us to apply map(), filter() and reduce() on the parameters array.

* Code Assignement: Modify the function sum using the rest parameter in such a way that the function sum is able to take any number of arguments and return their sum. Beginning code to be modified as outlined above. . . 
```
const sum = (x, y, z) => {
  const args = [x, y, z];
  return args.reduce((a, b) => a + b, 0);
}
```


## [Use the Spread Operator to Evaluate Arrays In-Place](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/use-the-spread-operator-to-evaluate-arrays-in-place)
* ES6 introduces the spread operator, which allows us to expand arrays 
* and other expressions in places where multiple parameters or elements are expected.
* The ES5 code below uses apply() to compute the maximum value in an array:
```
var arr = [6, 89, 3, 45];
var maximus = Math.max.apply(null, arr);
```
* maximus would have a value of 89.
* We had to use Math.max.apply(null, arr) because Math.max(arr) returns NaN. Math.max() 
* expects comma-separated arguments, but not an array. 
* The spread operator makes this syntax much better to read and maintain.
```
const arr = [6, 89, 3, 45];
const maximus = Math.max(...arr);
```
* maximus would have a value of 89.
* ...arr returns an unpacked array. In other words, it spreads the array. 
* However, the spread operator only works in-place, 
* like in an argument to a function or in an array literal. The following code will not work:
```
const spreaded = ...arr;
```
* Code Assignement: Copy all contents of arr1 into another array arr2 using the spread operator.


## [Use Destructuring Assignment to Extract Values from Objects](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/use-destructuring-assignment-to-extract-values-from-objects)
* Destructuring assignment is special syntax introduced in ES6, for neatly assigning values taken directly from an object.
* Consider the following ES5 code:
```
const user = { name: 'John Doe', age: 34 };

const name = user.name;
const age = user.age;
```
* name would have a value of the string John Doe, and age would have the number of 34
* Here's an equivalent assignment statement using the ES6 destructuring syntax:
```
const { name, age } = user;
```
* Again, name would have a value of the string John Doe, and age would have the number 34.
* Here, the name and age variables will be created 
* and assigned the values of their respective values from the user object. 
* You can see how much cleaner this is.
* Code Assignement: Replace the two assignments with an equivalent destructuring assignment. It should still assign the variables today and tomorrow the values of today and tomorrow from the HIGH_TEMPERATURES object.


## [Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Objects](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/use-destructuring-assignment-to-assign-variables-from-objects)
* my computer has the blue-screen of death, making this ongoing coding challenge a bit more difficult than previously had been. 
* Destructuring allows you to assign a new variable name when extracting values. 
* You can do this by putting the new name after a colon when assigning the value.
* Using the same object from the last example:
```
const user = { name: 'John Doe', age: 34 };
```
* Here's how you can give new variable names in the assignment:
```
const { name: userName, age: userAge } = user;
```
* You may read it as "get the value of user.name and assign it to a new variable named userName" and so on. 
* The value of userName would be the string John Doe, and the value of userAge would be the number 34.

* Code Assignement: Replace the two assignments with an equivalent destructuring assignment. It should still assign the variables highToday and highTomorrow the values of today and tomorrow from the HIGH_TEMPERATURES object.


## [Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Nested Objects](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/use-destructuring-assignment-to-assign-variables-from-nested-objects)
*  You can use the same principles from the previous two lessons to destructure values from nested objects.
*  Using an object similar to previous examples:
```
const user = {
  johnDoe: { 
    age: 34,
    email: 'johnDoe@freeCodeCamp.com'
  }
};
```
* Here's how to extract the values of object properties and assign them to variables with the same name:
```
const { johnDoe: { age, email }} = user;
```
* And here's how you can assign an object properties' values to variables with different names:
```
const { johnDoe: { age: userAge, email: userEmail }} = user;
```
* Code Assignement: Replace the two assignments with an equivalent destructuring assignment. It should still assign the variables lowToday and highToday the values of today.low and today.high from the LOCAL_FORECAST object.


## [Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Arrays](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/use-destructuring-assignment-to-assign-variables-from-arrays)
* ES6 makes destructuring arrays as easy as destructuring objects.
* One key difference between the spread operator and array destructuring 
* is that the spread operator unpacks all contents of an array into a comma-separated list. 
* Consequently, you cannot pick or choose which elements you want to assign to variables.
* Destructuring an array lets us do exactly that:
```
const [a, b] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
console.log(a, b);
```
* The console will display the values of a and b as 1, 2.
* The variable a is assigned the first value of the array, 
* and b is assigned the second value of the array. 
* We can also access the value at any index in an array with destructuring 
* by using commas to reach the desired index:
```
const [a, b,,, c] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
console.log(a, b, c);
```
* The console will display the values of a, b, and c as 1, 2, 5.

* Code Assignement: Use destructuring assignment to swap the values of a and b so that a receives the value stored in b, and b receives the value stored in a.


## [Use Destructuring Assignment with the Rest Parameter to Reassign Array Elements](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/use-destructuring-assignment-with-the-rest-parameter-to-reassign-array-elements)
* In some situations involving array destructuring, 
* we might want to collect the rest of the elements into a separate array.
* The result is similar to Array.prototype.slice(), as shown below:
```
const [a, b, ...arr] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7];
console.log(a, b);
console.log(arr);
```
* The console would display the values 1, 2 and [3, 4, 5, 7].
* Variables a and b take the first and second values from the array. 
* After that, because of the rest parameter's presence, 
* arr gets the rest of the values in the form of an array. 
* The rest element only works correctly as the last variable in the list. 
* As in, you cannot use the rest parameter to catch a subarray 
* that leaves out the last element of the original array.

* Code Assignement: Use destructuring assignment with the rest parameter to perform an effective Array.prototype.slice() so that arr is a sub-array of the original array source with the first two elements omitted.


## [Use Destructuring Assignment to Pass an Object as a Function's Parameters](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/use-destructuring-assignment-to-pass-an-object-as-a-functions-parameters)
* In some cases, you can destructure the object in a function argument itself.
* Consider the code below:
```
const profileUpdate = (profileData) => {
  const { name, age, nationality, location } = profileData;
}
```
* This effectively destructures the object sent into the function. This can also be done in-place:
```
const profileUpdate = ({ name, age, nationality, location }) => {
}
```
* When profileData is passed to the above function, the values are destructured from the function parameter for use within the function.

* Code Assignement: Use destructuring assignment within the argument to the function half to send only max and min inside the function.


## [Create Strings using Template Literals](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/create-strings-using-template-literals)
* A new feature of ES6 is the template literal. This is a special type of string that makes creating complex strings easier.
* Template literals allow you to create multi-line strings and to use string interpolation features to create strings.
* Consider the code below:
```
const person = {
  name: "Zodiac Hasbro",
  age: 56
};

const greeting = `Hello, my name is ${person.name}!
I am ${person.age} years old.`;

console.log(greeting);
```
* The console will display the strings Hello, my name is Zodiac Hasbro! and I am 56 years old..

A lot of things happened there. Firstly, the example uses backticks (`), not quotes (' or "), to wrap the string. Secondly, notice that the string is multi-line, both in the code and the output. This saves inserting \n within strings. The ${variable} syntax used above is a placeholder. Basically, you won't have to use concatenation with the + operator anymore. To add variables to strings, you just drop the variable in a template string and wrap it with ${ and }. Similarly, you can include other expressions in your string literal, for example ${a + b}. This new way of creating strings gives you more flexibility to create robust strings.

* Code Assignement: Use template literal syntax with backticks to create an array of list element (li) strings. Each list element's text should be one of the array elements from the failure property on the result object and have a class attribute with the value text-warning. The makeList function should return the array of list item strings.Use an iterator method (any kind of loop) to get the desired output (shown below).
```
[
  '<li class="text-warning">no-var</li>',
  '<li class="text-warning">var-on-top</li>',
  '<li class="text-warning">linebreak</li>'
]
```


## [Write Concise Object Literal Declarations Using Object Property Shorthand](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/write-concise-object-literal-declarations-using-object-property-shorthand)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Write Concise Declarative Functions with ES6](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Use class Syntax to Define a Constructor Function](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Use getters and setters to Control Access to an Object](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Create a Module Script](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Use export to Share a Code Block](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Reuse JavaScript Code Using import](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Use to Import Everything from a File](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Create an Export Fallback with export default](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Import a Default Export](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Create a JavaScript Promise](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Complete a Promise with resolve and reject](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Handle a Fulfilled Promise with then](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 


## [Handle a Rejected Promise with catch](#)
* 
* Code Assignement: 



Nav: [Basic JavaScript](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/blob/main/JavaScript/freecodecamp-notes/Basic-JavaScript.md) | [ES6](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/blob/main/JavaScript/freecodecamp-notes/ES6.md) | [Regular Expressions](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/blob/main/JavaScript/freecodecamp-notes/Regular-Expressions.md) |  [Debugging](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/blob/main/JavaScript/freecodecamp-notes/Debugging.md) | [Basic Data Structures](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/blob/main/JavaScript/freecodecamp-notes/Basic-Data-Structures.md) | [Basic Algorithm Scripting] |  [Object Oriented Programming] | [Functional Porgramming] | [Intermediate algorithm Scripting] | [JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures Projects]
