# [Glossary](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/edit/main/Nutanix/Nutanix-Course-Notes_SECTION-5.md)
*This glossary accompanies the coursework of section 5.2*


Amazon EC2 - 
Amazon EC2, Elastic Cloud Compute, is a compute service for your applications.


Amazon EBS - 
EBS, Amazon Elastic Block Store, is a block storage service that you can use with the EC2 compute service.


AMI - 
Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) are virtual appliances that are used to create an instance.


Availability Zones - 
Within each region, there are multiple, isolated sub sections of regions called availability zones.


AWS - 
Amazon Web Service is a set of various Amazon cloud services that can be accessed over the web/internet.


Free Tier - 
Amazon provides various services for free to get hands-on experience on the AWS platform called the free tier.


IAM - 
Identity and Access Management (IAM), is a mechanism to control access to the resources using users, groups and roles.


Instance - 
Instance is a virtual computing server running your applications on an Amazon EC2.


Internet Gateway - 
An internet gateway enables an instance to connect to the internet.


Key pair - 
A key pair consists of two keys that work hand in hand to authenticate a user. These are public key and private key.


Principal - 
The principal can be a user or an application sending the request to access an AWS resource.


Public cloud - 
Public cloud is a cloud service offered by a third party cloud provider. You will be sharing the resources with other customers and will have no visibility on where your data is hosted.


Regions - 
Amazon cloud computing resources are hosted in different geographical locations across the world. These physical geographical locations are termed as regions.


Root storage volume - 
The root storage volume has an image that includes all the necessary information to boot an instance during its launch.


Rules - 
Routing table consists of rules that define the route to your network traffic.


Security groups - 
A security group is a network security feature that enables you to control the incoming and outgoing traffic from an instance.


Security rule - 
Security group rules define the traffic that’s allowed to reach an instance and the traffic that’s allowed to exit an instance.


Subnet - 
A subnet is a range of IP addresses that you could use to connect to the VPC.


VPC - 
Virtual Private Cloud is a service where you can provision and launch an isolated section of Amazon Web Services using a virtual private network defined by you.


t3.micro and t2.micro - 
t3.micro and t2.micro are free tier instance types that are available in Amazon EC2 free tier.
