# [Glossary](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/edit/main/Nutanix/Nutanix-Course-Notes_SECTION-5.md)
*This glossary accompanies the coursework of section 5.4*


Amortized Cost Logic: A type of cost reporting which is based on accrual-based accounting.

Absolute Cost Logic: A type of cost reporting which is based on cash-based accounting.

Automated scheduling policy: A policy that shuts down compute and storage instances when they are not needed and brings them up when you are ready to use them again.

Blended Cost: A cost reporting option in Xi Beam. If you select this option, Beam reports the cost of resources based on the average cost of usage across the consolidated billing family.

Business Unit: In Xi Beam, a business unit is defined as a collection of cost centers.

Chargeback: A process through which enterprises can apportion cloud costs to different business units or cost centers. This could be for a team, a project, a region, or a department.

Cloud Cost Monitoring & Optimization (CCMO) tools: Software that can help you visualize resources by groups and departments, empowering you to manage their usage and enforce policies based on allocated budgets.

Cost Center: In Xi Beam, a cost center is a collection of resources within a single or multiple cloud accounts. You can assign resources to a cost center based on cloud accounts and tags. You can either allocate a complete account or resources within an account to a cost center.

Cost Governance: The process and activities involved in planning, managing, and controlling the budget of a business.

Continuous monitoring: A component of optimal cloud management which involves continuously monitoring resource utilization such as CPU, memory, disk usage, and so on.

Continuous optimization: A component of optimal cloud management in which administrators implement policies to resize resources that are too bulky for what they are being used for.

Reserved instances: Typically compute and database services that are available at significant discounts if you commit to them for a duration of one year or longer.

Scope: A scope is a logical group of your cloud resources that provides you with a custom view of those cloud resources.

Unblended Cost: A cost reporting option in Xi Beam. If you select this option, Beam reports the cost of resources based on usage.

Xi Beam: Xi Beam by Nutanix is a software-as-a-service product that helps customers with cost governance for both their public and private clouds. Beam’s cost optimization capabilities help identify cost saving opportunities in public clouds, and also enable chargeback and budgeting across public and private clouds.

