# Intro 
About this Repo-I created this repo at the end of 2020, so I could practice markdown.  When I first decided to focus more on using Git and GitHub, though I already had an account for some time, I hadn't really used it much. As such, I was only looking up the minimal markdown I felt I needed for a specific page or notation, and really hadn't learned it at all.  It was extremly frustrating to me to try to adapt from primarily writing HTML code to MD.  Thus, since I was already daily studying language(s) it gave me the perfect oportunity to practice markdown while accepting the challenge of being more active on GIT and GITHUB by starting a T-I-L (Today I Learned) repo and eventually coding daily (once I learn the basics of using this formatting).

Study of the Spanish language began in High School, many years ago where we learned text-book "Spanish" (as it from Spain).  Then, at University, I had a Castilian instructor, who taught me an entirely "new" (to me, that is) accent. People on the subway often asked me where I was from, as my "accent" apparently made me sound like I was speaking European Spanish.  At that time I was fluent and passed as a native speaker.  However, many years went by since then and mostly I lost some of the vocab and my "European" accent made it difficult for others to understand me where I live, as a more Latin American accent is spoken here. Thus, when my interest in Artificial Intellegence, and learning more about what the current state of tech is, catching up my skill set a bit, I dove into the new technology which was proporting to "teach" languages with A.I.  I had to see and experience this for myself!  The tech was DuoLingo which uses AWS Sagemaker, proportedly to accomplish what every Spanish teacher would do--repitition on the tasks ou have the most difficulty and just enough review of the tasks you easily grasp to make certain you don't lose the skill set. 

Prior to just about a year ago, I've never studied any other language besides my native one (English) and Spanish (in the formal setting at school). Now, when I began Duolingo, I liked it so much I started learning other languages just for the fun challenge of it.  There is no reason why I chose the languages I did.  I would still like to learn a few others, most noteably, Arabic (and a few dialetcs of it) because so many people in the world speak it (and reading it would be amazing too) but right now I'm starting learning a few non-alphabetical languages and I don't want to get confused with yet another. I'd also like to learn French and some of the other Eastern European languages. 

In addition to Duolingo, which is the oldest platform I've used for language learning, I also use Mondly and Drops.  I've tried drops for Spanish and found my connect too slow and clumbsy to make it work.  I do truly enjoy using Drops for non-alphabetic languages. It really helps to learn the letters.  I really enjoy listening to and speaking along with Mondly's Spanish accent.  It is very much like my Castillian instructor in college. 

# Logs 
[Today I learned in Spanish - 2020 Log](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/blob/main/polyglot/espa%C3%B1ol/study-log/2020_log.md)
[Today I learned in Spanish - 2020 Log](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/blob/main/polyglot/espa%C3%B1ol/study-log/2021_log.md)

# Special Characters 
For those without a keyboard which types Spanish special characters, there is a quick [cut-n-paste cheatsheet](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/blob/main/polyglot/espa%C3%B1ol/keyboard-shortcuts.md) I've pulled together.  I generally use it daily, when I'm not on my mobile, as my mobile is set to navigate and type in Spanish. 

### Navitation
[Castle 1](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/tree/main/polyglot/espa%C3%B1ol/Castle-1)  | [Castle 2](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/tree/main/polyglot/espa%C3%B1ol/Castle-2)  | [Castle 3](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/tree/main/polyglot/espa%C3%B1ol/Castle-3)  | [Castle 4](https://github.com/EO4wellness/T-I-L/tree/main/polyglot/espa%C3%B1ol/Castle-4)  |
